[Music]
basics with babish and my website basics
with babish comm or brought to you by
Squarespace head there now to check out
all the recipes from the show kitchen
equipment lists and more get 10% off
your first Squarespace order by visiting
squarespace.com slash babish from
websites and online stores to marketing
tools and analytics Squarespace is the
all-in-one platform to build a beautiful
online presence and run your business
alright so today we're making one of my
favorites millionaires shortbread and
before we can make our millions we got
to make shortbread into a large bowl
there's a quarter cup of brown sugar a
teaspoon each vanilla extract and kosher
salt and 1/2 a cup melted unsalted
butter give this a nice regular size
whisking until it is smooth and
homogeneous and then we're gonna add
about a cup of all-purpose flour I say
about a cup because shortbread is pretty
forgiving we're really going for more of
a consistency here something that holds
its shape when pressed together but it's
still nice and crumbly then we're just
gonna generously butter our baking
vessel of choice dump in our shortbread
dough and press it down using wetted
fingers or if you want the top really
nice and smooth the flat bottom of a
ramekin until it looks like that then
all there is left to do before baking is
docking or the act of poking lots and
lots of little holes into our shortbread
using a fork then optionally topping
with a sprinkle of raw or turbinado
sugar tapping down with our ramekin to
make sure that it sticks in place and
making a 375 degrees Fahrenheit for 15
to 20 minutes until golden brown crisp
and rigid allow to cool on a wire rack
completely about an hour before slicing
and serving and there you have it one of
the easiest to make and tastiest to eat
cookies in the whole of human history it
is buttery it is tender it is crisp it
has a texture that paul hollywood would
call very short how do we improve on
such simple perfection easy we drown it
in caramel and chocolate you will notice
that I'm making another batch of
shortbread here this time a double batch
because we need enough to comfortably
fill a lasagna pan like this one which
for expedited cookie release later on
we're going to line with aluminum foil
one sheet trimmed widthwise the other
trimmed lengthwise the same way that we
would for brownies and then because we
don't want the cookies to stick to the
foil either we're going to liberally
lube with butter before pressing our
shortbread dough down inside I don't
think a ramekin is gonna cut it this
time so use anything big and flat too
even at the top uneven cookies is a
bush-league look likewise we are docking
our shortbread before placing it in a
350 degree oven this time for 17 to 22
minutes because it's a little thicker
we're letting this chill on a rack until
completely cooled throughout about two
hours plenty of time to contend with our
caramel into a medium saucepan goes half
a cup of unsalted butter one 14 ounce
can of sweetened condensed milk I'm
sorry you had to see that sometimes I
just can't help myself one cup of light
brown sugar half a cup of corn syrup and
half a cup of heavy cream
you'd also have to be crazy to make
unsalted caramel so one teaspoon of
kosher salt then we are headed over to
the stovetop where we are placing this
whole affair over a medium heat
attempting the tiny whisk everything
together to no avail and having to
resort to a regular-sized whisk then
we're bringing this guy to a simmer and
whisking frequently for about 15 to 20
minutes until it reaches 236 degrees
Fahrenheit it's gonna stall around 225
but just keep going and don't give up to
get the right consistency in our caramel
we need to end up between 236 and 240
degrees Fahrenheit once the correct
temperature has been achieved we're
going to pour our caramel over are
awaiting shortbread we're then gonna use
an offset spatula to push it into all
the corners and spread it out nice and
even and tap it a few times against the
counter top to pop any bubbles next we
are gonna set that aside to cool
completely because it's time to work on
the final elements of our millionaire
shortbread a tempered chocolate topping
for this we need 8 ounces of dark
chocolate either in wafer form or
chopped coarsely whatever you got will
take about 2 ounces of it chop it fine
and set it aside this is going to be the
seed that helps our chocolate temper ooh
chocolate temper dibs on that for a new
band name anyway we're going to be
melting the remaining six ounces of our
chocolate by virtue of a double boiler
just go ahead and dump the chocolate in
there mix it around and allow it to melt
snot allowing it to exceed a temperature
of 120 degrees Fahrenheit removing it
from the heat to finish melting if
necessary then we're gonna take it off
the heat completely and then we're gonna
immediately stir in our seed chocolate
this is both gonna help cool the
chocolate down and allow it to temper
perfectly once it reaches about 82
degrees Fahrenheit we're gonna pour it
over our cooled caramel pushing it into
all the corners and spreading it out
nice and even with
that spatula give it a spirited wiggle
and a few taps to make sure that it's
nice and even and all the bubbles have
popped and then it's time to cover and
refrigerate for 10 minutes or until the
chocolate is set and as you can see I
did not temper my chocolate properly I
got it too hot so it ended up a little
streaky but it is still set now we're
just gonna use our aluminum foil handles
to lift the shortbread out of the pan
slowly and carefully peel off the
aluminum and get ready to slice I'm just
gonna cut these guys into bars I think
that's their most natural form see if we
got a nice even coverage in our
cross-section and we did the chocolate
is cutting a little slot bleep but these
are still gonna come out looking real
nice
I tried experimenting with a bread knife
I do not recommend this I'll try to make
long sweeping slices through the
chocolate first and then pressing down
through the caramel and cookie layers
this prevents the chocolate from
cracking and gives you nice even little
cookies and there you have it the only
thing on this planet greater than a Twix
bar the millionaire's shortbread a
crunchy chewy amalgam of chocolate
caramel cookie that simply must be tried
to be believed
it's the perfect cookie for Valentine's
Day I mean I guess so what's the next
major holiday we got coming up daylight
savings time it's the perfect cookie for
daylight savings time this episode and
many others have been sponsored by
Squarespace because they've been an
amazing partner in both bringing this
show and my websites to life they've got
a really intuitive easy-to-use platform
that made it super easy for someone like
me who's never done web design ever they
have templates they do domains they have
really good customer service it's
basically a one-stop-shop for building a
really slick website if you want to try
it for yourself you can start your free
trial today by visiting squarespace.com
slash babish to get 10% off your first
purchase
[Music]
you